What is Testing?

Software testing is the process of evaluating and verifying that a software product or application does what it's supposed to do, 
the benefits of good testing include preventing bugs and improving perfomance.

Testing our application is crucial to verify and validate the quality to ensure it meets user requirements.

In today's development environment, Software testing is most effective when its continuous, indicating that testing is started during the design, 
continues as the software is built out, and even occurs when deployed into production.

Continuous testing means that organizations don't have to wait for all the pieces to be deployed before testing can start.

Types of Software Testing?
Code review: confirming that new and modified software is following an organization's coding standards and adheres to its best practises
Integration testing: ensuring that software components or functions operate together
Unit Testing: Validating that each software unit runs as expected, a unit is the smallest testable component of an application
Function testing : checking functions by emulating business scenarious, based on function requirements
Perfomance testing: Testing how the software runs under different workloads, load testing , for example, is used to evaluate perfomance under real-life load condition ( lighthouse can be used on Front End applications' browser)
Regression testing - Checking whether new features break or degrade functionality
Security testing : validating that your software is not open to hackers or other malicious types of vulnerabilities that might be exploited to deny access to your services or cause them to perfom incorrectly
Usability testing: validating how well a customer can use a system or web application to complete a task

Why is Software Testing Important?
Late delivery or software defects can damage a brand's reputation, which  leads to frustrated and lost customers
In extreme cases, a bug or defect can degrade interconnected systems or cause serious malfunctions:

Example: 
Loop for business hack
KCB MPesa withdrawal hack
Consider Nissan having to recall over 1 million cars due to a software defect in the airbag sensor detectors, 
or a software bug that caused the failure of a USD 1.2 billion military satellite launch.
The numbers speak for themselves. Software failures in the US cost the economy USD 1.1 trillion in assets in 2016. What’s more, 
they impacted 4.4 billion customers.


Software Testing Best Practices
Software testing follows a common process
Tasks or steps include defining the test environment, developing test cases wrtiting scripts analyzing test results and submitting defect reports
Testing can be time consuming, manual testing or ad hoc testing might be enough for small builds, however for larger systems, 
tools are frequently used to automate tasks.
Automated testing helps teams implement different scenarios, test differentiatiors, and quickly get feedback on what works and what doesnt.
A good testing approach encompasses the Application Programming Interface (API - which you write with nodejs or Django on python), user interface and system levels.
The more tests that are automcated and run early, the better.

Red, Green, Refactor
Red, Green, Refactor is a phase used to describe the three phases of Test-Driven development
Red 
Write a test that will fail
This test defines the expected behaviour of the system
This phase helps developers focus on what they want to develop

Green
Write the code to make the test pass
This phase helps developers focus on how to make their tests pass

Refactor
Improve the existing code to make it well structured
This phase helps developers focus on how to improve the implementation

The red, green, refactor cycle is repeated for each new feature or behaviour